we want to speak with you about the
sanctions for months bbci has been
investigating settlers waging a campaign
of
intimidation I'm not touching don't
touch and harassment against
Palestinians we reveal how an
organization with ties to the Israeli
government has supported radical
settlers and their growing presence in
the West Bank
a family is being forced out of their
home in the Hamra area of the occupied
West
Bank they say they are being threatened
by a Jewish settler
AA and are now staying at their son
Muhammad's house 10 kilometers away
the person Thea family accused of
leading the violence against them is
this settler MOSI
sharit he's become known in the area for
his aggressive actions against
Palestinians
frequently captured in mobile phone
footage filmed by peace
activists since the war in razza began
locals say Moshe is responsible for
forcing families including theas to
leave the Hamra area but Moshe paints a
different picture of his presence here
he is part of a movement to expand
Israeli territory that began decades
ago in
1967 following a war with its Arab
neighbors Israel occupied the West Bank
and Raza not long after Israelis began
establishing settlements in the occupied
Palestinian territories claiming a
historical and religious connection to
the Land There are now more more than
140 Urban settlements across the West
Bank where more than half a million
Jewish settlers live amongst three
million Palestinians but Moses shavit's
Farm is different it's what's known as a
hering
Outpost it gives settlers access to vast
areas of land which has led to Violent
confrontations with Palestinian
communities
most of the settlers in the West Bank
are Israeli citizens which pay taxes do
their uh military service and are low
Keepers citizens okay they don't break
the low AI Mizrahi is a former head of
the Israeli Army in the West Bank
whenever you put outposts illegally in
the area it brings stands with the
Palestinians that are living in the same
area most Urban settlements have been
approved by Israel's government and are
legal under Israeli law but outposts
like Moshe shavitz don't have government
approval and are therefore illegal under
Israeli law many are subject to
demolition orders but these are rarely
carried out the UN says both settlements
and outposts are illegal under
international law
Israel disputes
[Applause]
this while Ultra nationalist settlers
were once at the fringes of Israeli
politics today they hold key positions
in prime minister netanyahu's coalition
government
their political rise has been a boost to
extremist settlers living in
outposts these politicians aim to
establish new outposts all over the west
bank and to expand existing ones like
The Outpost hav
we heard about an event organized by
local settlers they described it as a
hike but they had a clear message to the
Palestinians living in the town
of
opposite for
the youth are telling us where to
[Music]
go began as a small Outpost with just a
few families today there are around 100
Israeli families living there the hope
for its residents is that eventually the
Israeli government grants hav legal
status making it an official
settlement for the first time since they
were forced to leave their home Aisha
and her husband are trying to return
they are joined by Israeli Peace
activists that's the Ser that resides
here in this
Outpost he's trying to confiscate all
this
land this is land Palestinian Farmers
say they own and have been cultivating
for
decades
[Music]
fore it's not long before the the
Israeli Army and police arrive at the
scene they tell the Palestinians and
Israeli Peace activists to leave the
area yesterday we for the first time
announced um some sanctions against um
violent settlement who were carrying out
criminal acts in the West Bank Moshe
shavit was one of the settlers
sanctioned by the UK and later the US
and the EU for violence and harassment
against
Palestinians just weeks after the
measures were announced a local camera
crew filmed an open day at his
farm speaking candidly Moshe lays out
the strategy behind his Outpost
spe
a key body supporting settlers is the
world Zionist organization or
wzo it's been around for more than a
century and was instrumental in the
establishment of the state of Israel in
1948 one of its ski departments is the
settlement division which describes
itself as an arm of the Israeli State
it's a body which runs very very very
big part of a land which had been
expropriated by the Israeli authorities
in the West Bank to different Israeli
settleman or settlers the settlement
division doesn't publish details about
its individual dealings with
settlers but contracts obtained by the
settlement Watchdog pieace now help us
understand
more they show how the settlement
division allocates large areas of land
for grazing and farming throughout the
West
Bank but the contracts forbid the
building of any
structures one of them is for an area we
know well
Hamra what you see here you can see this
is the contract between the W Zoo yeah
and a settler which we hide his name and
you can see this is the area which was
allocated to him the red stains on the
map
yeah this is here this is where we are
right now there's only one settler here
in the area where the her this is M the
name in the document is redacted we
cannot be sure if it's mus shit's
contract but the date matches when he
arrived in the
area but we have also found evidence of
the wzo allocating land to two other
settlers that have set up illegal
outposts and who've later been
sanctioned
internationally Israel doesn't publish
official figures for the number of
illegal outposts but the BBC has
analyzed data on outposts from settler
Watchdogs organizations and the
Palestinian Authority verifying each
location using satellite imagery social
media posts and Israeli government
Publications we have independently
verified that almost 200 illegal
outposts have been established in the
last 30 years almost half of them since
2019 the un's top court has said all
settlements in the West Bank are illegal
under international law Israel rejects
this after repeated attempts to speak
with Moses AIT we decided to visit his
Outpost to question him directly I think
there is a gate there's a gate as far as
we're going to get we want to speak with
you about the
sanctions we've spoken to a lot of the
Palestinian families here who say that
you've used violence on them forced them
out of their homes what do you have to
say it was definitely you we filmed you
we've spoken to a Palestinian woman who
says you put a gun to her head
so will you let the Palestinian families
return to this
area more than 5 months after being
forced to leave their home Aisha and
Nabil triy to return once
more today moshes harat's Brother David
arrives to meet
them
foree
spee foree
[Music]
oh